su -c "echo 3 >'/proc/sys/vm/drop_caches' && swapoff -a && swapon -a && printf '\n%s\n' 'Ram-cache and Swap Cleared'" root

Exploit
A malicious application or script that can be used to take advantage of a computer’s vulnerability.

*Cloud*
A technology that allows us to access our files and/or services through the internet from anywhere in the world. Technically speaking, it’s a collection of computers with large storage capabilities that remotely serve requests.

*Domain*
A group of computers, printers and devices that are interconnected and governed as a whole. For example, your computer is usually part of a domain at your workplace.


IP Address
An internet version of a home address for your computer, which is identified when it communicates over a network; For example, connecting to the internet (a network of networks).

Breach
The moment a hacker successfully exploits a vulnerability in a computer or device, and gains access to its files and network.


Firewall
A defensive technology designed to keep the bad guys out. Firewalls can be hardware or software-based.


Malware “the bad guy”
An umbrella term that describes all forms of malicious software designed to wreak havoc on a computer. Common forms include: viruses, trojans, worms and ransomware.


Virus
A type of malware aimed to corrupt, erase or modify information on a computer before spreading to others. However, in more recent years, viruses like Stuxnet have caused physical damage.


Ransomware
A form of malware that deliberately prevents you from accessing files on your computer – holding your data hostage. It will typically encrypt files and request that a ransom be paid in order to have them decrypted or recovered.

Trojan horse
A piece of malware that often allows a hacker to gain remote access to a computer through a “back door”.


Worm
A piece of malware that can replicate itself in order to spread the infection to other connected computers.

Bot/Botnet
A type of software application or script that performs tasks on command, allowing an attacker to take complete control remotely of an affected computer. A collection of these infected computers is known as a “botnet” and is controlled by the hacker or “bot-herder”.


DDoS
An acronym that stands for distributed denial of service – a form of cyber attack. This attack aims to make a service such as a website unusable by “flooding” it with malicious traffic or data from multiple sources (often botnets).


Phishing or Spear Phishing
A technique used by hackers to obtain sensitive information. For example, using hand-crafted email messages designed to trick people into divulging personal or confidential data such as passwords and bank account information.

Encryption
The process of encoding data to prevent theft by ensuring the data can only be accessed with a key.



*BYOD (Bring Your Own Device)
Refers to a company security policy that allows for employees’ personal devices to be used in business. A BYOD policy sets limitations and restrictions on whether or not a personal phone or laptop can be connected over the corporate network.*


Pen-testing
Short for “penetration testing,” this practice is a means of evaluating security using hacker tools and techniques with the aim of discovering vulnerabilities and evaluating security flaws.


Clickjacking
A hacking attack that tricks victims into clicking on an unintended link or button, usually disguised as a harmless element.




